>> Mike North: Next,
let's check out a branch where we
have a lot of our raised bed layout
app already built that for us.
So go ahead and check out the branch
called DDD dash client dash validation.
If you have your server running in
the background, make sure you kill it and
restart it.
Then you should be able
to start it back up.
NPM run dev, and you should see
a bunch of stuff starting up.
Great.
So if you go to your localhost5173 garden,
you should see something
that looks like this.
So here we have a bunch of our plants
categorized a little bit differently.
We can see some of the data
is threaded through.
There's a lot of placeholder data
that we could add to if we wanted to.
And you can grab these tiles and
you can drag them into the raised beds and
place them.
What you may notice is that some
types of actions are not allowed.
For example,
we see placement is out of bounds.
If we try to put this tomato here,
we can see we get a validation failure,
not just an error message,
but this is a completion of
a validation task of some sort.
Similarly, I think this bed doesn't
have enough sunlight for tomatoes.
So I want to show you how we've set
up some business validation rules.
This is sort of the constraint part of how
we think about these bounded contexts,
right?
We've got our entities,
we've got our value objects,
the relationships and
the important constraints.
So in this branch, what you're going
to want to take a look at is something
called the workspace controller.
And this is ultimately
where kind of the brains
of plant placement in
the garden beds happen.
So if you want to look at what
kinds of things we have in here,
we've got validate item move, validate
item removal, validate item placement.
And these are sort of like this is
the interface that the rest of the app
engages with as it relates to
this workspace controller class.
Now, looking near
the bottom of this class,
you'll see something that's interesting
and that is plant validation rules.
And so here we've got something
called checkBoundaries, right?
And if we look, we've got the target zone.
Remember in the UI we're thinking
about workspace zone item,
and we've got the plant item.
And we're first getting the planting
distance in feet or the number.
And I would argue here we could
change this even to size because our
plant has a size on it.
This is where we were doing that.
We have a normalized version of
size that uses math seal to round
the planting distance
up to the nearest whole
foot make sure we're at least
at one cell by one cell.
Then we really just look at the lower
left corner of where the plant tile is.
That's the target X and Y.
So in the case of this tomato plant,
you see the little
coordinate system on the left and
the bottom of the raised beds.
So all we have to do is say this
bottom left cell of the four cells it
would occupy.
If we take that coordinate and
walk upwards and
we exceed the height of the bed,
or if we walked rightwards and
we exceed the width of the bed,
this is out of bounds.
And that's this logic here.
Target X, target Y plus size.
So if we were to make
this more interesting and
maybe these tiles aren't squares,
this is where we would go and change that.
Now, what we do here is this is kind
of the concept of returning an error
rather than throwing an error.
So a lot of programming languages,
like Golang is a good
example that follows this.
Returning errors as values.
There's something very important
about articulating things this way.
In this case, there's a difference
between I threw while attempting to
perform a validation versus I successfully
performed a validation and it failed.
So this in and
of itself is an important part of how
you might model a validation task.
There's like, I completed and
this is allowed, or I completed, but
this is disallowed.
And then there's like,
I exploded, or you attempted to.
You attempted to place me in a garden bed
that, as far as I know, doesn't exist.
So a good mental model I use here,
because we already have to deal
with this HTTP requests, right?
There's a difference between
an HTTP request that's like,
am I allowed to place this here?
Would you ever say you're going
to say like a 400 bad request if
it's sort of like not enough sunlight for
the plan, you want to say, yes,
we successfully completed
the validation operation.
Respond 200 and the answer is no,
you can't place them the plant there.
Does that make sense?
What this lets us do is we can
also add more information to
the validation failure,
which then bubbles up into the UI and
eventually it's presented in that
little red thing that you saw.
So we've got a couple rules here.
We've got check boundaries where you
can't place an item outside of the zone's
boundaries.
We've got no overlaps.
And this gets more interesting
because we kind of have to.
As we go through, we get the target zone,
we look through all of
the placements of the zone and
in case we're moving an item within
a raised bed, we wanna ignore that, right?
Like if we're over here and we're saying,
I just want to move this spinach over
by two, we're going to treat the original
location of the move as vacant,
because it's also a valid operation to
just drop it right where it was, and
that shouldn't be considered an overlap.
Then we've got the logic
where we're going through and
we're checking to see if there exists.
If the placement of all
of the placements in
the zone is not ourselves, right?
Like, if we're dealing with a tile in the
bed that is not the thing being moved and
dropped, then we're going
to examine its size and
see if the width and height of these
two things overlap with each other.
And what that might look like is this.
Well, sorry,
I already can't drag that over here, but
I shouldn't be able to do this.
This overlaps with Big Boy Tomato.
Okay, so
we have a nice little rule framework here.
We've got a context object, and
context has on it a lot of
the information that we would need.
Like, where is this coming from?
What's the operation type?
Is this an addition, a removal?
Is it moving within a zone or
moving across zones?
And then we've got access ultimately to
the whole workspace in case we needed to
go and grab sort of the root node of this
whole diagram that we have in front of us.